---
title: Project Cloning
excerpt: Clone your projects using the CL tool.
layout: post
---

# {{ page.title }}
_by ZD ([@zsvoboda](http://twitter.com/#!zsvoboda))_

The [CL Tool 1.2.28](https://github.com/gooddata/GoodData-CL/downloads) introduced the new project cloning capability. There are two new project export and import commands:

<code>ExportProject(tokenFile="...", exportUsers="...", exportData="...", authorizedUsers="...")</code> 

and

<code>ImportProject(tokenFile="...")</code>

As you can guess the <code>ExportProject</code> exports the whole content and stores it on a protected storage (you don't have direct access to it). The exported project is identified by a token that the command stores in the <code>tokenFile</code>. You can also define if you wish to export the source project's users (<code>exportUsers="true"</code>) and data (<code>exportData="true"</code>). The optional <code>authorizedUsers</code> parameter can specify other GoodData users (comma separated) who will have access to the exported content. The user who is exporting a project has access to it by default.

The <code>ImportProject</code> command imports a previously exported project to a new *empty* project. The command needs the <code>tokenFile</code> file that contains a valid import token generated by the <code>ExportProject</code> command. The import tokens expire after 48 hours.

Both <code>ExportProject</code> and <code>ImportProject</code> work in a project context. You can create, use or open a new project with the <code>CreateProject</code>, <code>OpenProject</code>, or <code>UseProject</code> commands. Here is an example of the complete project cloning script:

<pre><code>
# Open an existing project 
OpenProject(id="&lt;your-project-md5-here&gt;");

# Export the project with data and users. Save the import token to importToken.txt file 
ExportProject(tokenFile="importToken.txt", exportUsers="true", exportData="true");

# Create new empty project
CreateProject(name="Clone");

# Import the project metadata, data, and users to the new project.
ImportProject(tokenFile="importToken.txt");
</code></pre>

The logged user must be associated with the _admin_ role to be able to invoke the API. 

## Cloning without the CL Tool

If you are not sure in using the CL Tool, you can do the same thing using our so called grey pages. Go to the project maintenance section that is located on the following url:

`https://secure.gooddata.com/gdc/md/<project-id>/maintenance`

Here you are able to export the project. The system will generate a unique token that you will use lately to import project (store that token somewhere!). You have to create new, empty project and go to the same maintenance grey pages section, but this time choose import. You need to paste that unique token and the exported project will be imported to the new empty project. 

You can choose from same options as you can using the CL Tool.

**Beware!**
Export of a project backed by MySQL warehouse can be imported to an empty project backed by MySQL or PostgreSQL warehouse.
Export of a project backed by PostgreSQL warehouse can ONLY be imported to an empty project backed by PostgreSQL warehouse.

Review what type of driver/db engine is used by your Project! See the `https://secure.gooddata.com/gdc/projects/PROJECT_ID` and review the `driver` field because of cloning correctly.